[4.3.0] Rendering Changes - Icon migration (#1417)
telerik/blazor-docs: upgrade/rendering-changes/4-3-0.md

The default icon type in the Telerik UI for Blazor suite changes from `FontIcon` to `SvgIcon`. This marks the next milestone in a series of improvements related to the [Content Security Policy (CSP)]({%slug troubleshooting-csp%}).

### Switching to SVG icons

> When upgrading your application to 4.3.0 you might experience two possible scenarios related to the new default icon type:

Reviewer: Specify when the customer will experience the scenarios, so that there is no wondering and doubts.

#### Changes In The Rendering

The built-in icons in the Telerik UI for Blazor components will now render with different CSS classes which will break any CSS selectors that are customizing the icons:

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>

>             <th>UI for Blazor 4.2.0</th>
>             <th>UI for Blazor 4.3.0</th>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <th>UI for Blazor 4.2.0-</th>
            <th>UI for Blazor 4.3.0+</th>
```

        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td style="vertical-align:top">
<pre><code>
&ltspan class="k-icon k-i-camera"&gt;&lt;/span&gt;
</code></pre>
            </td>
            <td style="vertical-align:top">
<pre><code>

> &ltspan class="k-svg-icon k-svg-i-camera"&gt;&lt;/span&gt;

Reviewer: Are you sure this is all the new rendering? I think we should be rendering `<svg>` elements as well.

</code></pre>
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

#### Failing Tests

If you are testing the rendered HTML by the Telerik UI for Blazor components, some tests will fail due to the [Changes In the Rendering of the icons](#changes-in-the-rendering).

#### Continuing with FontIcons

> To continue using `FontIcons` as the default icon type in the application set the `IconType` parameter of the `<TelerikRootComponent>` to `Font`:

Reviewer: Link to the relevant section on the Icons page. You can remove the repeating content here.

````CSHTML
@* Use Font icons as the default icon type across the application. *@

<TelerikRootComponent IconType="@IconType.Font">
    @Body
</TelerikRootComponent>
````

> >note As part of the R3 2023 release, the font icons will be detached from the Telerik UI for Blazor themes. To continue using the font icons in your application, either add a separate CDN reference or download and reference the stylesheet included in the [Telerik UI for Blazor package]({%slug installation/msi%}##how-to-download-the-automated-installer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>note As part of the R3 2023 release, the font icons will be detached from the Telerik UI for Blazor themes. To continue using the font icons in your application, either add a separate CDN reference or download and reference the stylesheet included in the [Telerik UI for Blazor package]({%slug installation/msi%}#how-to-download-the-automated-installer).
```

The default icon type in the Telerik UI for Blazor suite changes from `FontIcon` to `SvgIcon`. This marks the next milestone in a series of improvements related to the [Content Security Policy (CSP)]({%slug troubleshooting-csp%}).

### All Telerik UI for Blazor components will now use SVG icons by default

When upgrading your application to 4.3.0 you might experience two possible scenarios related to the new default icon type:

> * [Custom CSS selectors will not work](#changes-in-the-rendering)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Custom CSS that targets icons may stop working](#changes-in-the-rendering)
```

* [Failing HTML tests](#failing-html-tests)

#### Changes In The Rendering

> The built-in icons in the Telerik UI for Blazor components will now render with different CSS classes which will break any CSS selectors that are customizing the icons:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The built-in icons in Telerik UI for Blazor will now render with different HTML markup and CSS classes. This will break any CSS selectors that are targeting the icons:
```

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>UI for Blazor 4.2.0</th>
            <th>UI for Blazor 4.3.0</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td style="vertical-align:top">
<pre><code>
&ltspan class="k-icon k-i-camera"&gt;&lt;/span&gt;
</code></pre>
            </td>
            <td style="vertical-align:top">
<pre><code>

> &ltspan class="k-svg-icon k-svg-i-camera"&gt;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
&lt;span class="k-svg-icon k-svg-i-camera"&gt;
```

>     &ltsvg&gt;...&lt;/svg&gt;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    &lt;svg&gt;...&lt;/svg&gt;
```

&lt;/span&gt;
</code></pre>
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

#### Failing HTML Tests

If you are testing the rendered HTML by the Telerik UI for Blazor components, some tests will fail due to the [Changes In the Rendering of the icons](#changes-in-the-rendering).

### Continuing with FontIcons

> To continue using `FontIcons` as the default icon type in the application [Set Global Icon Type]({%slug general-information/font-icons%}#set-global-icon-type).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To continue using `FontIcons` as the default icon type in the application, [set the global icon type to `Font`]({%slug general-information/font-icons%}#set-global-icon-type).
```
